# PG-REACHABILITY-BENCHMARKS
This is part of Andrei Dumitriu's Bachelor Research Project "Linear algorithms for Parity Games with the signature of a potential" for Computing Science at the University of Groningen. Student number: s4081676, supervisors: Jorge Perez, Oliver Lorscheid.

This tool has been tested on Ubuntu. This testing environment may not be functional on Windows.

## Setting up the testing environment
After pulling this project, the first step is to install the libxlsxwriter library.

Step 1. Make sure that there is a **libxlsxwriter** folder. If not, use the command `git submodule update --init --recursive`.

Step 2. Follow the installation steps found [here](https://libxlsxwriter.github.io/getting_started.html).

Step 3. To make sure that the operating system is aware of the installation, you may need to use the command `sudo ldconfig`.

libxlsxwriter:
Copyright 2014-2022, John McNamara <jmcnamara@cpan.org>
All rights reserved.


## Test Generator
This program generates 15 random parity games and 15 random, symmetric, bipartite, parity games. All generated graphs have at most 1000 nodes and no sinks (nodes with no outgoing edges). Additionally, the priority of the nodes is at most 10. Tests with under 300 nodes have their maximum priority set to 4.

In order to complie the code, in the **Test Generator** folder, run the command `make`.

In order to run the program, in the **Test Generator** folder, run the command `./TestGenerator`.

The generated tests are found in the folders **Random Tests** and **Bipartite Symmetric Tests**. 

Note that the generated .gm files always have the same names and any new tests generated with the command `./TestGenerator` will replace the files with the same name in those folders. Because of that, the tests used in obtaining the research results were copied to the folders **Used Rand Tests** and **Used Bip Sym Tests**. 

## PG Reachability Solver
This program implements 3 different parity game solvers:

- **pgSolver1**, which solves the parity game by first transforming it into a mean payoff game,
- **pgSolver2**, an algorithm developed as part of the research project, that uses the same overall structure as pgSolver1, without using mean payoff games, combined with Fearnley's Strategy Improvement algorithm,
- **pgSolver3**, a sequential implementation of Fernley's Strategy Improvement algorithm. 

The program uses the test files found in the **Random Tests** and **Bipartite Symmetric Tests** folders, creaded by **TestGenerator**, as well as those in the folder **Keiren Tests**. These are benchmark tests provided by John Fernley. With over 1000 tests, only the 15 tests that were actually used by the program were kept in the project, as the total size of all games (unarchived) is over 42GB. The tests were not hand-picked, instead they were simply the first 15 files found by the `readdir()` function that met the following criteria: no more than 1000 nodes, no priority larger than 10, no sinks. The test files generated by **TestGenerator** maintain the same encoding as Keiren's tests. Do not add any files in these folders that are not parity games encoded in the style of Keiren's tests, as the program will likely encounter a Segmentation fault.

The program uses 15 tests from each of these folders, then applies the solving algorithms to the resulting parity games and calculates how many seconds it took each algorithm to produce the solution. These execution times, information about each individual parity game, and a field for showing that all algorithms produced identical results, are all then stored in **Results.xlsx**, found in the **Results** folder. The program will always write to this file, so the data previously stored in it will be erased. Because of that, the results of the conducted research were copied to the file **Final Results.xlsx**.

Note that because of the time complexity of **pgSolver1** being O(n^(maxP+2)), where n is the number of nodes of the graph and maxP is the maximum priority of the nodes, this algorithm was only applied to games where maxP is at most 1 or if n <= 300 and maxP <= 4. 

In order to complie the code, in the **PG Reachability Solver** folder, run the command `make`.

In order to run the program, in the **PG Reachability Solver** folder, run the command `./pgReachabilitySolver`.



